Alright, let's do a quick review of Promises.
I know we went through Promises in some earlier videos
but if you're just checking out these videos
because they're updated for async/await,
we're going to do a quick review and
it's also going to set the stage for us
refactoring some Promise code into async/await
so first we're going to start off with some native Promises,
things that are built into the browser
then we're going to look at building
some of our own Promise based functions.
Now, a lot of the browser APIs that are coming out
that are new, they are all Promise based,
meaning that you don't have to have a success
in error call back anymore.
They all return a Promise and we use either
then then then catch or async/await try-catch,
to be able to deal with them.
So, let's start off with the fetch APIs,
probably the, not the first but one of the most popular APIs
that have come along for completing AJAX request.
So we're gonna take fetch and we're gonna go
to github an grab my github info so,
https://api.github.com/users/wesbos.
That's gonna go ahead and fetch the data that we have there.
Now, if we were to do this, like,
cons response equal to that, and then we were to
console.log that response, what are we gonna get?
Let's take a look.
We get the Promise, so this is not the actual data,
this is just a promise that the data
will come back eventually,
so in order for us to actually transform this Promise
or listen for when the data comes back
we need to attach a dot then not to the end.
So I'm gonna get rid of this console.log here,
get rid of this, and then we're just gonna tack on
a dot then, and that's going to give us a response,
I'm gonna use a little arrow function here,
and we can just console.log the response.
So let's give that a, whoa, console!
So there we go, there's our response,
it comes back fairly quickly but you never know,
sometimes, a API takes a number of seconds to come back,
but I open that up, we have some info but,
headers, body, or if you click these dots,
you get a body, a readable stream,
which is locked: false, I don't know,
like, where is my actual data,
and that's because fetch does not assume Json,
like a lot of other libraries, like axios,
so it's just a really good Promise based library,
so we need to, again, convert this response into Json.
And the way we can do that is we can just return
the response and call a method called json,
which in turn is going to return a promise,
that means we can chain another, then on the end,
we'll get another response, and then we can
console.log that response and see what we get.
Beauty, so here is a nice object full of all of our data,
the last thing that we need to know is if,
for some reason, I did something wrong, like,
for example, I forgot to put the https on the front,
then, what's gonna happen is, it's gonna break.
And we get an error here, Uncaught (in promise) TypeError
failed to fetch, so, this fetch function
before we even return data to get to this then,
the whole thing broke, because it encountered a url
that doesn't actually exist, right?
It's looking on my hard drive here
locally for that actual thing.
So, that's not exactly what we want,
so the way that we catch that is we have a catch
and then we can take the error,
and then once we have that we can like
console.log like, oh no!
And console.log, the actual error itself,
and you can see that now it actually caught the error,
maybe probably better to do in console.error.
So it gives us some information, oh no, type error,
failed to fetch, and we get a little stack trace
coming along, in terms of, where we had that
and at this point we need to display
some sort of interface to the user,
or try it again, or do something with that actual error,
so that the user knows that,
they're not just sitting around waiting for it.
So, that's fetch, that's the very basics of it,
we are gonna keep that around,
I'm just gonna comment it out,
because we're gonna switch it over
to async/await fairly shortly.
The other one I wanted to show you is the
GetUserMedia, which is your webcam,
it allows us to access the user's webcam,
so I've got a video element right here,
and what we're gonna do is run a
select that video element with QuerySelector.
Then, we're gonna go ahead and ask for the user's webcam,
now if you've taken my JavaScript30 course,
you'll know that, what day is, what date did we do it?
We did it on the webcam fun,
there we go, on day 19th we accessed the user's webcam,
and what's cool about that is that the getUserMedia
also returns a Promise, which will let us
use then and catch for it.
So we take our navigator and we go
to the mediaDevices property
that will have access to all our media devices,
and then we specifically ask for the video stream.
So it's like getUserMedia, and then we'll ask
the video to be true,
you can also ask for audio at that point
but I'm not all that concerned with it.
Then, when the user successfully grants us access
to their webcam, they click that little box that says okay,
we tack a dot, then on the end,
which is going to give us what they call mediaStream,
and let's just console.log that mediaStream.
Let's see what we've got here.
Now, if I refresh this, we're gonna click allow,
and it gives us this raw MediaStream,
which has an id, active, and some information null.
Now what we can do with that MediaStream that we have it,
well, we can just go ahead and take our video element
and we can set this source object
to be equal to the mediaStream,
and that will take the blob of data that's coming off
hot-of-your-webcam, set it right
into your actual video element.
You can also do it with video.src is equal to
window.URL dot something like that...
URL.createObjectURL and then pass it,
the mediaStream, but that comes with some,
it's a little bit different,
that's the older way that we've done it,
that's how I did it at my JavaScript30,
but the new way is just by setting those srcObject directly.
So, let's see what that gets us so far,
I click allow, which will then
trigger the then that we have,
good, and then it's, I see like I got one frame,
oh, there we go, you see like,
it's kind of frozen right now,
but if I move my, I scroll the page
it updates a little bit, apologies,
I'm using the wrong webcam on my computer,
which is overhead, so, how do you work it?
Well, you just say video.load, you load it up,
and then you just call video.play,
which will actually start streaming it from the webcam.
So I click allow, and bam, all of it is coming in.
Hello, you can see me up there, it looks pretty good.
Now, what if I refresh the page and I say block.
We get this Uncaught in promise,
someone said, permission denied.
Oh, okay, well, how do we handle that?
Well, we just type on catch until the end,
which is gonna give us the error,
and then we can just deal with that error however we want.
So let's just console.log, error,
see what the error is giving us,
so refresh, block, here's the error,
and then the name is PermissionDeniedError.
So in this case you could maybe put a little arrow to here,
where the user would be able to click this
and turn things on and off.
Here we go, you can click on this webcam
and you can allow it to access your webcam
or continue to block it, so you would have to post up
some information to the user to say,
hey, things didn't work.
Cool, so, that is two built-in native promises,
in the next video we're going to look at
some custom hand-crafted promises
and then we'll sort of switch it around
and conform both all these things to async/await